>> Mike North: Here's,
this is sort of like at a very high
level how things work with IndexedDB.
You open a database and
you open it by name,
you can have multiple IndexedDB databases.
And when you open it, you kind of
declare that this application would
like to open it and
the current version of this database is 1.
So let's say the current
version of the database is 10.
And if we find something
on disk that's a version 5,
that lets us know well,
we have to migrate this thing forward.
Maybe you've added a couple fields,
or created a new store, or
changed the way indices work.
That tells you sort of your target and
your current position, and
now you know the path
that you have to take.
And that brings us to onupgradeneeded,
so this event is fired in the event
that what is found does not match
the version that you're asking for.
Here, we're asking for version 1.
Like, if we were asking for version
10 what we find on disk is version 9.
That thing's gonna get called.
And we'll drill into that more deeply.
And then finally,
after the database has been opened, right,
and the upgrade has completed,
basically taking what was stored and
bringing it up to current, now we
can do stuff in this onsuccess hook.
This is a really cool way of doing this.
And I've had experience
working on desktop apps, and
server-side apps that store data for
many years.
That's in document format.
There's a lot of value in this because
most of the code that you write is going
to be in unsuccess.
And you can take for granted that
by the time that is called you're
working with an already updated database.
You kind of bring it up to date and
then let's start working with it.
Rather than having to have
a lot of complex switching.
Like if you've ever dealt with maintaining
local storage data over long term,
oftentimes you end up just throwing it out
the window, because you've changed the way
you handle certain things,
which is not a good experience for users.
So let's drill into these.
Let's first focus on the onupgradeneeded.
And this is the pattern I advise that you
use when you're upgrading a database.
So, you can first see that we
get this thing called a DB,
sort of a very central object.
We will use this DB object quite a lot,
and that is available on,
if we look back here,
open is the thing that we got from the,
it is returned by this open function,
right?
And once this function is called here,
you will find that there's
something available on this open
object under the result property.
Already you should be thinking
this is clunky as all hell,
I should be getting this as
an argument to a function.
The reason is IndexedDB is pretty old.
It's been around since,
it is available in a genuine way
all the way back to IE11 and
polyfillable in IE10.
So like Promises were not at the heart
of what we were working on and
you have to imagine that the standards
were developed long before IE 10 so
it's like it feels old because it is old
and that's why I'm going to show you
something that's a little nicer to work
with as we round things to the exercise.
So we get the database
on this open object, and
on this event what we can do is
basically switch on this old version.
So the old version is what you're gonna,
that is where we
find the version of the database
that was found on that user's disk.
I advise a key switch upgrade pattern
here with no breaks, deliberately.
The idea is if you have
8 different cases for
8 different versions of the database.
Each case statement can represent
an incremental upgrade from version
1to version 2, version 2 to version 3.
And essentially, a very old database
will sort of begin executing those steps
1 by 1, beginning at the correct spot and
following all the way through to
the bottom, and
then you're completely upgraded.
This makes managing complexity a lot
easier, and it also keeps us honest
about forward compatible, or
sorry backwards compatible changes.
So you should never find yourself
committing new code that alters very old
migrations from, if you're on version 10,
you really shouldn't be mucking with the
code that takes version 2 to version 3.
Unless there's a bug in that area,
that's pretty much set in stone.
And now you should be always
just adding stuff to this.
>> Speaker 2: Am I right in the assumption
that if you're on version 10,
and the disk has version 1,
you're gonna get 9 onupgradeneeded
events that fire sequentially?
>> Mike North: No,
you're performing 1 upgrade, but
you're gonna enter this switch and
fall through 9 cases.
So the act of upgrading happens once.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: And the version
is that application's version or
the IndexedDB's own version?
>> Mike North: EVT.old version is the
version of the database found in storage.
The number 1 that we passed in
here when we opened this thing.
That is the application's like
most modern known version.
So you'll be incrementing that up and
up and up as this database evolves.
And you'll be adding more
cases here as well, so
that's all I really have to
say about on Upgrade Needed.
It's not incredibly complex.
And if you've ever used
a server-side application
that has a concept of database migrations.
This is database migrations
in case switch form.
So let's look at what we can
do in the unsuccess hook.
>> Mike North: So we get that database
object, and we create a transaction.
So here we're seeing that
IndexedDB is transactional.
What this means is that we can attempt
to carry out a sequence of operations,
and they will either complete or
nothing will happen.
So, what I mean by that is either
the whole transaction will finish
successfully or any partial work that
has been done will be rolled back.
So it's sort of an all-or-nothing thing.
Here's an example of a transaction that's
been happening behind the scenes in
the app that we've been using so far.
When you create an order, like all
the items are removed from the cart.
So that creation of an order and
removal of 10 or so
records that were cart items,
those operations either all work or
the database is left as is.
You're never gonna end up in a situation
where the order was created but
we still have stuff in the cart.
So this is great in
terms having guarantees
about completing a multistep thing or
leave it alone.
You're never caught with
a half complete situation.
So once we create a transaction,
we can get on this transaction a store,
and this is a collection of these objects.
And at the end, we want to add this on
complete callback for the transaction, and
essentially that will make sure that we
close the database up when we're done.
>> Mike North: Here is an example of
stuff that we could do with records.
So we've got, we can create an index,
we can put records into the store.
You'll see that all
records will have an ID.
This is very important,
you have to have an ID on records.
And what we have here is
fields that can be nested,
so we have name, first, and last.
Name is an object here.
And once we have an index, we can use that
index in order to retrieve records, so
here's an example of
retrieving a record by ID or
using this index that we
created on the first line.
>> Mike North: And again, it's available
in a lot of different browsers.
Opera Mini doesn't use it because
they tried to offload some
Java execution onto servers and
that's sort of an oddball.
But Chrome's had it for a very long time.
This works on iOS Safari.
In fact, Safari just shipped
IndexedDB 2 which is faster and
offers some more features around query.